In the late 1950’s,
the opposition
against Jehovah’s Witnesses
in the former Soviet Union
resulted in homes being searched,
brothers being followed,
and many of our brothers
and sisters being sent
to Communist concentration camps
in Siberia,
among other places.
In 1956 and 1957,
over 462,000
convention delegates worldwide
unanimously adopted a petition
which clearly outlined the treatment
Jehovah’s Witnesses were enduring.
It was sent
to the Soviet authorities,
but sadly, not much changed.
The next year,
at the 1958 international convention
at Yankee Stadium
in New York,
a talk was given entitled
“Behind the Iron Curtain.”
During the talk,
delegates were surprised
when a recording of greetings
and songs from brothers
and sisters in the Soviet Union
was played.
Despite the risk of losing
their freedom,
the brothers produced
and sent these recordings.
Well, a few months ago,
some of those who were involved
in making the recording
were able to listen to it
for the first time
Several of them
found out only then
that the recording had been played
at the convention at Yankee Stadium.
Our team was present
at that gathering.
The brothers told us
to prepare songs for a recording.
When we were singing,
I never imagined
that it was for a convention,
because I did not know about that.
We sang as usual.
The chorus was made up
of about 20 persons,
and the recording
was made in a room
in a barrack-like building.
I just looked after the chorus
to give them the right tone.
If someone sang a little off-key,
she would right away remark:
“Altos, you are off!”
or “Tenor, you are off!”
so that there would be no slips,
no mistakes.
We had to be very careful
when we were recording.
And so we knew not to talk.
I could not tell
anyone about it.
It was secret
—absolutely secret.
They chose a brother
who spoke very good Russian,
who had good intonation,
and who had a good voice.
And as I recall, we made
the recording on our first attempt.
Brother Yuriy Dobychin
said the greetings.
I was young then,
and I had a good voice.
So I had to say
the greetings
from the brothers
in the Soviet Union
for the brothers gathered
at Yankee Stadium.
As the brothers who made
the recording told me,
the most difficult assignment
for them
was how to get this recording
across the border.
The brothers cut it up
into pieces
and sewed it into
the lining of a jacket
because that’s how
confidential letters were sent.
One married couple
from Poland,
who were vacationing
in Russia,
agreed to take it
back with them
—to take it
out of the Soviet Union.
And that’s where they ran
into serious problems.
From Brother Scheider’s letter,
who received
the audio recording in Poland:
“The security officers separated
our brother from the others.
“Then an officer said to him:
‘Please give us the film
and the three letters you have with you.’
“The brother saw now,
of course,
“that there had been
a traitor somewhere.
“He and his wife
were now thoroughly searched.
“Every square centimeter
of their cases
“was carefully examined
together with their contents.
“Then both were stripped naked.
“While this was going on,
they yelled at the brother:
‘Tell us where you have hidden everything
or to whom you have given it!’
“They were absolutely convinced
that he had everything with him.
“Several times they took him
to the office
“of the frontier police
and to the security police,
“searching him
again and again
“and being terribly angry.
“But they finally had to give up.
“They kept him back
for 24 hours
“and questioned him
in the presence of ten specialists.
But he came out victorious.”
Sadly, even the brothers
who were involved
don’t know who this couple
who brought the tape
into Poland was.
Well, for me it was, of course, a great joy,
since the goal was reached after all.
Everything was so wonderful
at that time.
I really enjoyed it all!
Nothing could describe
the joy I felt.
I was overwhelmed with feelings.
And so my voice was recorded,
and the greetings were heard
in New York
at Yankee Stadium.